# MJlaws
The aim of this project was to see if the state-by-state legalization of marijuana leads to less violent crime. A primary concern of law makers and voters is that marijuana, when legalized will make people more violent and destructive. Marijuana was initially made illegal in the United States following the passing of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 on the account that marijuana was mostly used by minorities and the claims that it leads to violence and increased crime. To test this, I collected data on each state's level of legalization per year. I devised a scale 1-5 1 being legalized, 2 being decriminalized and medically available, 3 being decriminalized, 4 being medically available, and 5 being illegal. I then collected crime data on each individual state from 2000-2019. With this database I then read it into an R script to look for a correlation between each type of crime and the level of the law for the year. This project looked at nine different types of crime. Violent, entails all violent crimes, Property crime, Murder, Rape, Robbery, Assault, Burglary, Larceny and Car theft. Robbery occurs when property is forcedly taken while burglary occurs when property is taken without the consent of the owner. The data was used to first create a box plot of the crime and the law level. This showed the level with the amount of crime side by side. Next, an Anova table was used to determine whether there are any statistically significant differences between the means of the law level and the amount of crime. Lastly, a Tukey Honestly Significant Difference Test was used to determine if the relationship between the level of the law and crime amount was statistically significant. 
